>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Some of you may
have already read the
magnificent work of Joan Grant.
Endowed with an impeccable
memory of the distant past,
she's helped mystics and
seekers of all backgrounds
understand the nature
of life in times past.
Joan died in 1989, but
her friend, granddaughter,
and regression associate are
carrying her work forward today
to the delight of
myself and many others.
Jane Lahr is with
us today to tell us
of a magnificent
account of far memory,
and you and I are
in agreement here,
Jane, neither one of us,
with all our exposure,
have ever heard of
someone with the kind
of vision this woman had.
And I know some of the
people I have the most
respect for on this planet,
living and not living,
have very high degrees
of respect for Joan.
So she's right at the top.
>>JANE LAHR: Yes, Joan
was the real deal,
and she was born in 1907,
and she was born with
'far memory,' what she
called far memory--
the ability to recall
previous incarnations--
and went on to write seven
autobiographies of her earlier
incarnations.
>>REGINA: But the
thing is, not everyone
knew they were autobiographies
initially, right?
>>LAHR: Right.
>>REGINA: Because she
couched it as fiction.
>>LAHR: Well, they were--
I guess, growing up
in England in a very
conservative time-- she was
born into the Edwardian
era-- just to come out
and say, well, I was a
pharaoh in Egypt in 3000
BC would not have gone very far.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I know.
I understand.
>>LAHR: So for 20
years she did not
own the fact that they were
far memories of her own,
and people thought she
was a great Egyptologist.
They thought she was
a great historian.
>>REGINA: Yes, well,
understandably,
because the detail in which she
remembered-- that's just what
fascinates me about her work.
How else in the world
can we grock what
life was like in those times?
And we're going to talk
about a lot of this,
including later on, systems
of justice even-- what
the systems of justice
were like, what
the lifestyle was like,
the behavior of people,
relationships.
She recalls all of it
right down to the cup
she's holding in her hand.
>>LAHR: Right, she
wrote "Winged Pharaoh"
when she was with her first
husband Leslie Bennett,
and he recorded 115 sessions
when she'd switch levels.
She called them "hoves," and
then they pieced them together.
They were clearly the story
of Sekeeta, who was trained.
Her mother recognized
her at a young age
to have the potential
to be a priestess, who
was trained to be a
"winged pharaoh," meaning
you could work outside of
your body on an astral plane.
>>REGINA: Which she
brought all through-- this
is what's fascinating.
She brought that skill set
down through incarnations
and into this incarnation--
that capability--
to give the rest of us a glimpse
of not just what life was like,
but the understanding
of human beings,
what our capabilities
even were in the past.
>>LAHR: Well, what's
extraordinary about Joan
is she was, in terms of
Western esoteric history,
she remembers it all virtually.
>>REGINA: She
remembers all of it.
I know.
>>LAHR: She had recorded it all.
And, of course, "Pharaoh," what
I was so drawn to in that book,
in "Winged Pharaoh,"
is that the schooling
to be a winged pharaoh--
she went into the temple.
And the temples
were universities
where you learned
psychometry, where
you learned astral projection,
where you learned ethics, where
you learned actually body work,
because the Egyptians cared
about dancing, in
other words, to honor
the body as the
vessel of the soul.
So you had to honor
the body as well.
But she had a teacher who
taught her dream work, really,
working outside the body.
>>REGINA: That was considered,
at the time, a real education
and would certainly
serve us now.
I mean, what's
being crammed down
these little kids into their
little heads is so nonsensical
now.
In my mind, that was
considered a proper education.
Now we have to go
way out of our way
into ancient
esoteric studies just
to get a glimpse of what was
taught very naturally in those
kinds of universities slash--
those were temples and schools,
and I have past
life spec in there,
where I remember with
that training was like.
>>LAHR: Right, and
it was-- she had
a brother in that incarnation.
They were being trained
to be pharaoh together.
They were co-pharaoh, and
you wanted a winged pharaoh
in terms of justice, when
people come with complaining--
he stole my cow.
He's run off with my wife--
to see the truth because Joan
was taught in the temples,
these universities,
to see and identify the truth.
>>REGINA: So someone comes into
your-- it was not a courtroom,
but at the place where they had
to essentially judge the town's
folk for their behavior.
She was able to go and do
a little astral travel,
look into the situation
that had actually occurred.
So if the person was going
to show up with a whopper,
she could say beyond it.
She could see beyond it and say,
no, this is not what occurred.
And that is how it
should be, shouldn't it?
And that's what we're
all striving toward.
And before we go into the
bulk of the "Winged Pharaoh,"
and we're going to have two
conversations, because we have
a lot to cover, I really
want to go into Joan's life
so people understand how
profound a little being
she was and really start in her
life with the book "Far Memory"
and also the one that you've
published and written.
Did you co-author the book
"Speaking From the Heart?"
>>LAHR: Well, right,
Sophia, her best friend,
they shared a number of
incarnations together,
and Nicky, her granddaughter, we
edited her unpublished writings
that had obviously never
seen the light of day.
It took Sophia and I, I
think, close to 10 years
to decipher Joan's
writing, and then
Overlook Press published it,
and it's a beautiful book.
>>REGINA: It is, and between
that and "Far Memory,"
there are some similar
stories, depending
on what she chose to share.
You can really piece together
who she was in this age,
in this lifetime.
So let's talk about her
when she was first born,
because I was intrigued with
some of the stories about
as a baby in a crib.
>>LAHR: Right, her
father, who was
an atheist and a very
well educated scientist--
I forget if it was
Cambridge or Oxford--
and he had four degrees--
Joan said, well,
I remember what it was like
when I was a baby, and he said,
it's not possible.
And then she proceeded to
describe exactly the room
she was in, the wallpaper
on the room, what
was going on at the
time in the cottage,
and he actually
went to the cottage,
and everything that
she said was there.
And then he started--
someone else
was living in this cottage.
He starts tearing
the wallpaper off.
>>REGINA: Peeled some
of the wallpaper layers.
>>LAHR: Yes, and indeed
it was the wallpaper
she had described.
But she also, as a
young girl at seven,
there was a gentleman
having dinner with them,--
formally dinner with
them-- and he was a doctor.
And she looked at him,
and she realized he
was going to die the next day.
>>REGINA: I love this story.
I mean, I love this story.
>>LAHR: And this
was not an old man.
He was 55, and she looked
up, and he was going to die.
She said, oh, you
must be very excited.
Tomorrow--
>>REGINA: --is your birthday.
>>LAHR: It's your birthday.
And Blanche, Joan's mother,
said, "Joan, his birthday's
a month from now."
And Joan said, "No, I
mean like the day you die,
in which you die."
>>REGINA: She considered
that all the same.
It was seamless--
birthdays, death days
were a birth into
different dimensions.
>>LAHR: Well, yes,
but she said, this
will be like your
happiest birthday,
because she believed
that he would be reunited
with the souls that
are waiting for him
and that it would be, she called
it, the "beautiful country."
To be dead was to go to
the beautiful country.
>>REGINA: Well, her mother
was very angry with her
for doing this and chastised
her after this event was over.
And sure enough, the
man died the next day.
>>LAHR: That's right, and then
her mother was angry at her
all over again.
But Blanche had been actually,
who was a great beauty,
had been a very popular
clairvoyant and psychic
in her own right,
and she had friends
from Oxford and Cambridge
and this very handsome John
Marshall married her.
But she was a great clairvoyant.
>>REGINA: And he
was a scientist.
>>LAHR: And he was a scientist.
When she saw the
"Titanic," by the way,
she said, that boat
is going to sink.
That boat is going to sink.
It had gone by their
house on Hayling Island.
And indeed the
next day the boat--
>>REGINA: --when it
got out to sea, yeah.
>>LAHR: And the other
time she did this,
they were supposed to return.
They'd been in
America, and they were
supposed to go back to
England on the Lusitania.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>LAHR: And she said, "We
can't go back tomorrow.
That boat is going to sink.
It's going to be torpedoed.
We're not going."
And her husband went quite
crazy, and he said, "Well,
what about the next day?"
And she said, "No, that's fine.
That's fine."
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
that was Blanche.
>>LAHR: Yes,
Blanche, the mother.
OK, I'm sorry.
I'm talking too much about
Blanche, but what I'm saying
is that she came into a family
with a mother who had very
psychic and clairvoyant gifts.
And Joan saw ghosts as solid,
and when she came in-- often
we talk about ghosts being
diaphanous or luminous.
She saw them as completely solid
and grew up in an Edwardian
household in which she thought
everyone else must have seen
them; they just didn't want to
talk about them because it was
impolite, so she didn't.
But they were solid
ghosts, and all her life
she saw ghosts as solid.
>>REGINA: And she had kind of
an amazing, you can call them,
synchronicities.
We know they're there's
something beyond that,
but she had amazing
synchronicities
happening throughout her
life, as she grew up.
Tell us a little bit about her
teenage years and the decision
she made about school
and all of that.
>>LAHR: Well, she
was very bright.
She was very good
mathematically,
very good with science.
But she had a lovely
nanny that was fired,
and she decided,
that's it; I'm not
going to go to serious
school and study seriously
and what have you.
And, in fact, it wasn't until
much later-- the family were
very friendly with HG Wells.
Lots of very famous
people visited the house.
And one day, he came to the
house to see the family,
but Joan was there alone.
She had the opportunity
to speak to him,
and she told him
about her memories
of going to the battlefield
during the first World War
and helping soldiers transition
over to the beautiful country.
And he said to her, "Joan,
I want you to write.
I want you to write."
And he said, "And don't
share this knowledge
until you know you're
strong enough not
to resist the
laughter of fools."
>>REGINA: Yeah, to
crack under that.
>>LAHR: Yes, to crack under
that, which is indeed what
she did, and probably,
when she decided
to talk about these earlier
historical novels as far
memory books was when
she was ready to do that.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about-- this
was something-- it's
along this line,
but I just thought it was
such a quirky little story.
You were telling me
this when we spoke
on the phone before
your arriving
here about someone that she
was doing business with,
a woman who she was
talking to, and the woman
was slicing this grapefruit.
Tell us that story.
I love it.
>>LAHR: Actually, it was Sophia.
>>REGINA: Oh, it was
Sophia, her friend.
>>LAHR: It was used just
when she met Sophia.
Sophia was introduced to Joan,
and Joan was staying near her
in Manhattan at the
[INAUDIBLE], and she
called Sophia on the phone.
She called Sophia, and Sophia
was trying to cut a grapefruit.
Sophia got on the
phone with Joan,
and Joan said, "I'd like to drop
off a manuscript to show you."
So, Sophia was thrilled
because she had
an affinity-- she liked Joan.
She said, "Oh, please, I
would love to read it."
And at the end of
the conversation--
they talked for awhile, and she
said, "And, by the way, Sophia,
when I come, I'll teach you how
to cut a grapefruit." [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] So
she was out traveling--
she was traveling over to
her during the conversation.
>>LAHR: That's right.
>>REGINA: What a useful skill.
I mean, it is something
that is our birthright,
but not very many of us have
recaptured that ability.
>>LAHR: Right, now,
one of the things
that I can tell
you about Sophia is
that, in fact,
Joan had recognized
Sophia when they met.
One of Joan's books called
"And so Moses was Born"
--Neb was one of the
possibly pharaoh was--
but rather than Ramoses
II, but said he, one,
decided that Neb should be with
[? Sensen. ?] They loved one
another, [? Sensen ?]
and Neb, and in fact,
Sophia was [? Sensen. ?]
So they recognized--
>>REGINA: Joan recognized
this bond went way back.
And let's talk about some
of the other things that
were happening in
her lifetime, too,
such as when she
would play the piano.
>>LAHR: OK, well, again, Sophia
comes in here because Sophia
was also Jenny Marshall.
>>REGINA: OK, so
talk about that.
>>LAHR: And you will see that--
>>REGINA: So explain
who Jenny Marshall
is and explain about this piano
thing and other people who
had witnessed it.
>>LAHR: So Jenny Marshall
was John's mother.
>>REGINA: So her grandmother.
>>LAHR: Grandmother--
and she was
married to a very
wealthy man who
was the head of Marshall's
Department Stores in England,
and sadly, she was
a great pianist,
and he did not
allow Jenny to play,
and then she ultimately
died of cancer.
After she died, she came
back and visited Joan
at Hayling, which is their
house in Cornwall on the sea.
And Joan and Jenny spoke,
and Jenny taught Joan
how to play the piano basically.
>>REGINA: In nonphysical form.
>>LAHR: Exactly,
exactly, and indeed
one day there was someone who
had known Jenny and known what
she'd played, and Joan
went over to the piano
and played a work of art
that Jenny had composed,
a piece that Jenny had composed.
And the man said,
it's not possible.
That piece has
never been played.
How could it be?
And it was because
Joan had been taught
by Jenny to play this piece.
>>REGINA: She was tapped in on
just so many different levels.
People that are
interested in her life
need to read either "Speaking
From the Heart" or "Far Memory"
or both of them
because we can kind
of randomly kind of
hopscotch through her life.
Everything about it was amazing.
She was just a very commanding
and quirky presence.
>>LAHR: Although she didn't
believe in astrology,
she was an Aries, and she
was bold, and she said it.
She spoke the truth.
And I think I was drawn
to her books and to her
because the truth comes
through all of them.
There's wisdom and
truth in all of them.
>>REGINA: And there's this,
kind of from different points
of view, rendering
of what we would
consider to be natural justice.
This is really big-- the notion
that this is a just universe.
>>LAHR: That's right.
>>REGINA: Yes, that keeps
coming through in all the works,
and it seems to me that she
spent many lifetimes in service
to humanity to help the
populace understand the nature
of true organic justice.
>>LAHR: Right, exactly, and,
again, going back to "Pharaoh,"
there is something
ultimately just
about a system of
government where
the balance is with a
priestess and a ruler who
can protect the
country and go to war
and whatever he has to do.
And again, the honoring,
when-- years ago, I did a book,
an anthology called
"Love-- a Celebration
in Art and Literature."
When I was researching
it, I realized
Old Kingdom sculptures-- the
period of "Winged Pharaoh--"
the woman was of
equal size to the men.
They would stand
side by side, pharaoh
and the wife of pharaoh, and
there was a balance there.
So that shifted.
That balance shifted by the
time you get to Middle Kingdom
Egyptian history.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>LAHR: This is off point.
>>REGINA: No, it's not at all.
Nothing you're
saying is off point.
I want to gobble all
of it up, so you can go
tangential any time you want.
So now I want to talk a little
bit about her methodology,
the way she was able to go
into these deep memories.
>>LAHR: I mean they
started very early.
Again, she always had them.
But when she worked
with someone--
she was taught,
again-- one thing,
when you're trained to be
a priestess, an initiate,
a winged pharaoh, you
learn to regress and recall
your memories.
But the second step, and they
called it the "golden key,"
is you learn to recall another's
memories because the wisdom is
the overlap.
So she could-- and
had the ability
to go to, if she's working with
someone-- the traumatic moment
and see it.
Sometimes the individuals can't
really see the whole truth.
There's a very interesting
incident that happened,
which I'm happy
to tell you about.
She was in Wales with
her second husband,
and they had a house Trelyden
during the Second World War,
and they use the house to
protect children as well
as adults who needed
to get out of London,
which was being bombed.
A psychiatrist actually
came to stay with them,
and his name was Clarkson,
I believe, Alec Clarkson.
He was interested
in reincarnation
because he'd worked
with hypnosis,
and some of his
clients had shifted
into earlier regressions, and
he'd read some of Joan's books.
He came to the house, and
they had a lovely time,
but nothing too profound
about reincarnation occurred.
And as he was
leaving-- you couldn't
get meat or birds or
eggs during the war.
It was very hard.
Provisions were very low.
They handed him a
brace of pheasants,
and they were tied
by the neck, and he
said, "If you could
wrap it up please.
I can't take it in this form."
So she looked at
him, and she said,
"You and I had a similar death.
You were cut down on
a field in a battle,
and as you were
dying, the vultures
started circling
you-- six of them.
And you could smell them,
and they would come closer,
and you were waving your arms,
and they would move back.
And finally, they
came closer, and they
started to take your flesh.
Ultimately, you died."
But then, she said,
"But you were enraged
that none of the other
soldiers hadn't killed you.
Because they knew
you were dying.
They were supposed
to kill you, and you
were angry at those soldiers."
And it was that anger,
the energy of the anger,
as well as the death
that caused him
to be locked into
this fear of feathers
that he'd had his whole life.
He collapsed on the sofa.
He started recalling
the regression.
They put him upstairs to bed.
He asked Joan to stay
with him all night.
They worked on it.
He went to sleep and
slept until 12:00.
He woke up, and
he was completely
cleared of this terrible
problem he'd had his whole life.
They handed him
the brace of birds,
he took them back on the train,
and he remembered writing Joan,
I'm sure everyone on the train
sitting in his compartment
thought he was mad because he
would take them off the shelf
and pet them on the
trip back to London.
>>REGINA: But it
just goes to show you
the power of having a
witness, so to speak.
I mean, people do
regression work,
and people go into hypnosis
and regression in this lifetime
even, not necessarily
always past life.
And the problem is there's often
a defense mechanism sitting
there that doesn't
allow them to fully go
into the past or the
area where the trauma is
held within the aura.
To have someone there
to say, I see you.
I know it because I was there
with you, or I can see you--
>>LAHR: Right, he
wasn't aware that it
was his anger that held that.
When I did my work with
Joan and K, her husband, who
was a psychiatrist and a
therapist, what held me,
I had a terrible incarnation
in the 16th century-- awful.
The whole life was 32
years, and it was not
a pleasant incarnation,
but I was held by the fact
that I saw coins being
exchanged when my mother was,
I thought, selling me.
>>REGINA: In that
incarnation or this one?
>>LAHR: In that incarnation,
and in that incarnation,
I wasn't being sold.
She was giving coins
to a foster mother.
Even if I had regressed
and remembered the coins,
which I did, I
didn't know that it
was I was being fostered out--
a completely different story.
And so therefore I was
held into a trauma.
I mean that was my ghost.
That ghost was affecting
me in this lifetime.
Once I knew the truth, my
life was changed utterly.
It was the beginning of
my publishing career.
>>REGINA: Yes,
it's very powerful,
but, again, had she not
given you that piece--
and I've gone back
in regressions
where I saw something, and you
only know what you knew then.
It's not like you see everything
and know any differently.
You know what you knew then.
And I had kind of a bone
against this other group
of people that were
doing something
that I thought was very
unethical, because I
was cloistered to the
extent I didn't really
know the true story.
It was just rumor
that had gotten to us.
And then in this lifetime
I met two other people
that were there at
the exact same time
and then showed me the
other side of this story.
And I thought, oh, god,
that makes total sense now,
and all the judgment
around that left.
It was a painful circumstance.
>>LAHR: Well, that was
extraordinary for you.
What a lucky, wonderful--
but unfortunately,
even the best of them-- I
mean, Brian Weiss is very good,
but he doesn't have
the golden key.
He can't do the overlap.
But I'm sure there are folk on
the planet with those gifts.
>>REGINA: OK, well so
there's one thing that did.
I used to take people
into regressions.
I loved doing it.
I did it for fun for years.
But I was able to travel
with them and be with them
and be in their mind and
see what they were doing
before they would tell me.
And oftentimes it was
kind of-- it just hit me.
I forgot about that, that it
was kind of like what you're
talking about with Joan in
that they wouldn't report
certain things back, and I'd say
afterward, but what about this?
Didn't you see
this at that time?
I thought I was making it up.
This is where having a witness--
>>LAHR: And indeed that
was how she was trained.
She was trained to do that.
>>REGINA: That old temple stuff.
>>LAHR: That's it.
>>REGINA: And so, once you
became involved with her,
why did you
originally go to her,
and then how did your
involvement blossom
and continue to this
many years later?
>>LAHR: Well, I was married to
a theater critic at the time,
and I had a child, my daughter.
And I was very close
to having a breakdown.
The marriage wasn't good,
and I had reoccurring dreams
that my daughter was going
to drown-- was drowning.
I would see her drowning.
And oddly enough, a woman, who
I was in a sculpture class,
I was reading "Winged
Pharaoh" at the time.
It was at home.
A woman came over
to me and said,
a friend is coming to America.
Would you like to come
and hear her speak?
It was Joan Grant.
That's synchronicity.
>>REGINA: Lucky you.
>>LAHR: And so I went, and then
I realized something's wrong.
And so I went to London
and worked with them
for a month, five days a week,
and I did regression work.
And the real payload was
the 17th century incarnation
as a crippled male
acrobat who thought
he was sold by his money.
>>REGINA: Yeah, this is a
recurring theme that you're
being sold out, literally.
>>LAHR: No, it's the same.
>>REGINA: It's with
the same reincarnation.
>>LAHR: Yeah, the one I talked
about-- but the other one was
of a Phoenician woman
whose daughter did drown.
>>REGINA: OK, so your
fear was bleeding through.
>>LAHR: Exactly, and as
I said to you, because I
have developed my visual
senses over numerous lifetimes,
my visual sense of looking
out into the harbor--
I had a beautiful
villa in Crete,
and I would look
out into the harbor
and see the Phoenician
boats, which were painted
with wonderful colorful shapes.
So the reason why I give you
real credibility to far memory
is when I recalled these
things, I never had the issues.
>>REGINA: That's right,
the reality changes.
>>LAHR: And also, the strength
of the one-legged acrobat who
died of the plague,
his tenacity,
I had pushed away from
integrating certain strengths
that this character had, that
he had certain lovely qualities
that he had.
So when we don't integrate
these pieces of ourselves,
we cut off strengths as
well as vulnerabilities.
>>REGINA: You know, I find it
amazing that even in the world
we're in, there are
many people have
just unquenchable curiosity.
But when it comes to themselves,
it's a different thing.
There is often an unwillingness
to look at one's own past-- far
past, near past-- and maybe
because of the trauma that
embedded there.
>>LAHR: Exactly, because
it's too painful.
That regression
took two sessions.
I must have been
under for hours,
and I broke the first session
because it was too painful too.
It was the pain when I thought
I was sold was so great that I
just I couldn't bear it.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the betrayal.
>>LAHR: Right, and
yet, that was my--
but the second session
we figured it all out.
And, by the way, I'd lost
my right leg below the knee,
and I literally could feel it
reforming after the session.
Joan called it the
superphysical--
that we have a body.
We have our physical body, but
we have a super-physical body.
And the damage was to
the super-physical body.
>>REGINA: And that's oftentimes
what shows up in lifetimes
as weaknesses in our
structure or our immune system
or marks on the body are
said to often be inherited
from our previous incarnations.
>>LAHR: Exactly, there's
no question about it.
>>REGINA: And that would be
what she calls the super body.
>>LAHR: Super-physical, mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: --the information
in the super-physical.
>>LAHR: Exactly, exactly.
>>REGINA: I had a
similar experience,
where in this one particular
lifetime-- and Delores Cannon,
dear Delores, who died
a couple weeks ago,
was the one who
did the regression.
And when it came to the
really, really painful part,
I couldn't do it.
I couldn't go to that moment.
And she said, why
don't you go past this,
and then it was filled in
by these other people later,
and I got the full piece.
But you have to wonder, do you
actually get the healing out
of it when you--
I just didn't see
any reason-- I couldn't
traumatize myself over
again in doing it.
>>LAHR: I think you do.
Actually, I do think
you get the healing.
I think it's not as maybe
as dramatic or whatever,
but you do, and also,
the healing sometimes
comes in time.
But after I came back to America
after working with Joan and K,
I had psychic gifts
that I never had before.
Someone approached me.
I was in Amagansett on
Long Island in our house,
and some woman had
lost their little dog.
And I said, oh, look at
the field up the hill,
and they found him.
>>REGINA: So it all
opened up for you.
And again, for most of us,
once we release the trauma,
huge parts of our
greater mind are now
freed up to be able to
be allocated and used
in different ways.
I think that's a part
of trauma in general
that is not well understood.
It's held within the aura.
The fear-- it's
not held so much--
it may relate to the body,
but it's held in aura.
And if the aura is
gunked up with trauma
after drama that's
never released,
how can we use our full forces?
>>LAHR: Well, you're not because
there's a whole piece of you
that isn't there.
I mean, you can't.
I mean, Joan called these--
these were our ghosts.
This was a ghost of myself
that was stuck in time,
you see, that I
had not drawn in,
as was the Cretian woman,
who when her daughter died,
committed suicide.
She lost her daughter, but
I've met my daughter. [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Have you?
Interesting--
>>LAHR: And one of the
interesting things is,
as with Joan and Sophia,
there are people that keep
reoccurring in our--
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
they keep showing up,
that we're bonded
to on some level.
And Joan was also interesting
in that the boldness
of her character I loved.
There was one
story, as I recall,
about she was engaged
to a young man,
and she broke the engagement off
and said, I just can't do this
and went away-- went away.
And I thought she was
in the lodge somewhere?
>>LAHR: A ski lodge, I think.
>>REGINA: --a ski
lodge, and this man
comes in and recognized
her and said, "I know you.
Do you remember me?"
And she said, "Yes, I do."
And they began a
relationship like that.
It was like this
instant recognition,
and they even kissed
that very day.
It's like, I know you.
I know you.
>>LAHR: Wonderful,
well, indeed, the people
that were close to her, many
of them she knew before.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely, so
that wouldn't be a surprise.
>>LAHR: I don't know if
I've explained enough.
I sent you a picture
of a young Joan.
I hope you have that.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes,
we love that picture.
>>LAHR: Yes, so these gifts--
during this first World War,
she started going
at night seeing
these terrifying situations
on the battlefield.
She was often not the
little girl Joan in them.
She was a nurse in a uniform.
She was older.
So when she manifested
at these battlefields,
she was a larger
Joan, an older Joan,
but it was terrifying for her.
At times she didn't
want to go to sleep.
>>REGINA: Because she was
sending her consciousness
out there.
It was going out.
>>LAHR: Yes, and
she healing them.
She was telling them as she
was putting their guts back
into themselves
and saying, you can
go on now, letting them
know they'd passed on--
and go to the beautiful country.
And she was trying to
heal them and get them out
of this terrible hell
that they were in.
So that's quite a
courageous lady.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes, to take
on that amount of pain--
>>LAHR: To be initiated you had
to, there were seven ordeals,
I believe, or possibly more,
that you had to go through.
>>REGINA: Now, you're talking
back in the "Winged Pharaoh"
days, and we're about to
segueway right into that.
And if we don't finish talking
about it in this conversation,
we're going to pick it
up again in the next,
because we also have the life
and times of Mary and Jesus
and Moses.
She talks about pivotal
periods of history
where she may have
been not necessarily
the central figure all the time,
but close to what was going on.
>>LAHR: And some of the books
are about-- "Life as Carola"
she was just a little
Renaissance-- she played a lute
and sang, and she wasn't
always the pharaoh.
People believe who believe
in reincarnation say,
oh well, I don't believe
it, because you're always--
you were Napoleon.
I was a one-legged acrobat
in 17th century Spain.
You don't want to be one-legged
in Spain in the 17th century.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, I remember
times being sold off myself.
They weren't the most glamorous
or comfortable of times.
So let's talk about
the "Winged Pharaoh"
now and the story of
Sekeeta and, again,
because this is really just
drenched in pearls of wisdom.
It's a beautiful story.
It flows like a novel,
very easy to read,
but, again, this is heralded
by some really interesting
mystic orders as true vision.
>>LAHR: Oh, without question.
>>REGINA: So that's why
it's-- I mean, to read it is--
you think, oh, my god,
I'm there with her.
>>LAHR: Joan had developed
earlier on the ability
to psychomotrize objects,
and she kind of did it
with her friends for fun.
I mean, one of her
friends was involved
with the British Museum,
and they would go,
and they'd put their
hands on sculptures,
and she would read them, and
the visions were very powerful.
So she could.
Once she was given a little
blue scarab, I think it was,
and, all of a sudden,
she thought, wait,
this is a true scarab.
This is from 3000 BC.
This was mine, and she realized,
and then Sekeeta came through.
At first, she thought it
was someone who was dead.
And then she realized,
no, she's being initiated.
She's going into
something like a pyramid,
but it had three levels.
So the first level
reflected the body;
the second level, the soul; and
the third level, the spirit.
And she went across
a lake and then
into a room that was shaped
not unlike a sarcophagus,
and she had to be there for
four nights and be out of body.
And while she was out
of body, come back,
and record everything
that she had seen.
Now some people don't make it.
They don't survive
the initiation,
but she did, and
therefore she was winged.
>>REGINA: Let's go back
now to her husband also.
He would take her
out-- she was known
in archaeology--
great archaeologist.
She could suss it out
because of her ability
to use psychometry on
the remnants of the dig,
and so she was taken out a
lot on archaeological digs.
>>LAHR: There was some,
but she-- Leslie didn't
want her to show these gifts.
>>REGINA: Leslie
was her husband.
>>LAHR: Yes, Leslie.
Beatty didn't--
>>REGINA: He didn't like this,
but he also asked her to read
things for him--
>>LAHR: Yes, it's true.
>>REGINA: --privately.
I mean he was being a
little bit of a hypocrite.
It's like, don't embarrass
me with your skills, however,
what do you get out
of this little piece?
>>LAHR: But he did record
these 115, I think,
sessions for Sekeeta, and by
chance, she sent it to someone,
and they sent it
on to a publisher,
and the publisher got in touch
with her immediately and said,
"I'm publishing this."
And it was in
1937, and it became
an instant international
best seller,
and that was the end
of that marriage.
>>REGINA: I think that's because
people felt the truth in it,
and you can see why Leslie
would have felt threatened.
I mean, he was an academic,
and now his wife is shining.
But let's go into Sekeeta's
life as a young girl.
She was also very
close to her brother.
And some of the tenets of
what she was taught even very
young, before she went into
her elder years and separation
from the boy she loved,
and lead the life
of a young, female pharaoh
and training was like.
>>LAHR: I will try to
recall some of this for you,
but she was born into-- she
was told before she was born
that she would be born to
a family that wanted her,
and she would be
born among souls
that knew her from before.
So her brother-- she
adored her brother,
and they were best
friends really,
and they were intended
to be co-pharaohs
from the very beginning.
It was a loving family-- the
parents, the father and mother.
The father was pharaoh,
and they wanted this child.
The mother recognized the
gifts of the child very early
and gave her a small sculpture
of Anibus, who was-- he
taught dreaming and
access to dreaming.
And so early on her
mother said to her--
I love this too-- she said--
Sekeeta loved to swim.
And the mother said to her,
now when you're going to sleep,
realize it's just
like you're slipping
into the water of dreaming,
and it's as simple as that
and as wonderful as that.
And so the mother encouraged
her dreaming gifts.
And then she was a
real tom girl and--
>>REGINA: Out
exploring all the time.
She had a little pet lion.
>>LAHR: She had a pet
lion that she adored,
and she got into lots of
mischief with her brother.
>>REGINA: But her father
was also a very just ruler.
>>LAHR: Oh, very just.
>>REGINA: A good
man and just ruler.
She had a good template
for what that's like.
>>LAHR: That's right,
and one of the things
that I've realized about
early Egyptian culture,
and it's certainly part
of "Winged Pharaoh,"
is there is a diagram of the
elements of the soul in it.
It's hidden in the
book, but it talks
about all the different levels
of the soul-- body and soul,
healing the body and
healing the soul.
And this is extraordinary,
and it really is reflected.
There was a lot of wisdom on
the planet at the same time.
In the Upanishads,
the Hindu Upanishads,
there is information about the
aspects of the soul as well.
But it's in "Winged
Pharaoh" if you--
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
>>LAHR: It's definitely
in "Winged Pharaoh."
So she was a
regular little girl,
and then it became
clear that she
was gifted enough to go to the
temple to become a priestess.
>>REGINA: And to be initiated.
Can you explain anymore about
what they were put through,
some of the tests of the day?
And I ask you this because
if you look at modern times,
and you hear about things
like the rites of passage,
if you want to call it that,
the initiation into societies
like the Skull and Bones,
I find it interesting
that these-- and
also there are much
darker practices oftentimes.
It seems to me
that they're trying
to mimic something
that was held very dear
and was very real in
times past, but now it's
kind of a sorority.
It's not a sorority, but, yeah.
>>LAHR: Exactly, these
were true priests.
These were true priests.
They weren't just facsimile.
>>REGINA: They were
born for a purpose.
>>LAHR: Exactly, and they gave
their life to the healing arts,
whether it was the
soul or the body.
That was what was
taught at these temples.
We don't, of course-- to
go through some silly rite
in a university
or whatever, which
doesn't have any
credibility or information
or-- it becomes a rite.
It's just something quite
superficial and surface.
But OK, when she was
initiated, the first part
of her initiation is she
had to go to the underworld
and bring some souls back.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
found that fascinating.
>>LAHR: They would be
someone who would, say,
who had been a torturer, and
they would be repeating--
>>REGINA: These patterns.
>>LAHR: --patterns
over and over,
trapped into that repetition of
torture, and she would go back,
and they would
talk of the truth,
and she would bring them out,
and she would bring them out
of the underworld.
If someone was a glutton
and was eating everything,
she would try to-- and would
succeed-- bring light into that
and adjust the pattern.
That was the first
part of the initiation.
And then there were
subtler things.
Some of us, most of
us, have had some form
of an addiction or another, and
she would work with addictions,
whether it was you make a
craven image of friendship
or you drink or
you-- she would have
to work with people who
had subtler-- I mean,
torture is extreme.
>>REGINA: The more
subtle patterns
that were not serving them.
>>LAHR: Yes, exactly, and
she would work with them
and heal them.
And then during
the initiation she
got to the higher worlds,
in which she went to an area
where you were seeing true
colors-- amethyst, turquoise,
blue, gold.
You could experience
colors really
that we don't on Earth--
more deeply and felt.
And then sounds--
music, she said,
I remember-- I
think in "Pharaoh"
she said-- I believe-- you
wouldn't want a musician
to hear this music because they
would never play anything again
because it was so beautiful.
And then Akasha-- the area
that held all the memories--
the Akashic record.
There was an area she had to
go through and experience.
And then she had
to defeat someone
who was a soul that was given
to darkness, a powerful soul,
just by her will--
just by her will.
And then her last test was to
do defeat the fear, her greatest
fear.
And in Joan's case, it
was of cobras and snakes.
So she had to go into a
pit of steaming cobras
and really destroy
the master cobra.
And that was the end of
her-- but these were big.
These are not easy things to do.
This was really a serious
test of will and courage.
>>REGINA: Which was
necessary if you
were going to become a leader
of the people in the day.
You had to earn.
>>LAHR: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LAHR: Because
really the goal here,
the goal in this dimension,
is to be free and to be happy.
"To free souls"
was her assignment,
and joy was really
what was happiness.
And Joan, in this
incarnation, in this lifetime,
always taught we must develop
all of our five senses
before we will
develop our sixth,
and she had them all
developed, without question.
>>REGINA: And that's
the thing too,
going into the areas
of sound frequencies,
of color, even simple
meditations and exercises
for us today, such as being able
to hold a color or a colored
object in our mind clearly
for even a minute, even two
minutes, begins that process.
>>LAHR: Absolutely.
And as we discussed earlier,
when she was at Trelyden,
and the children were
coming from London,
and she was looking
after them, she
had them going out into
the woods collecting leaves
and petals, and she had
them close their eyes,
and they have to
identify the flowers,
and they learned by this
feeling of the petals,
identify the leaves
or the bark and what
the tree was by the feel.
You can do that.
You can develop these senses,
but you have to do it.
I mean, you have
to train yourself
or be trained to do it.
>>REGINA: Well, and
that is the business
of people who have
chosen repeatedly
to take these kind of
high leadership roles
throughout history.
And now I think it's important
to clear one thing up.
This was in the Old Kingdom.
I mean, I read at
one point, I thought
it said Sekeeta was
7,800 years ago.
>>LAHR: Well, it was 3000 BC.
>>REGINA: So that's
only 5,000 years ago.
>>LAHR: Yeah, I don't
remember the 7,800.
I remember it was
the Old Kingdom,
and the Old Kingdom was
the most spiritual kingdom.
As you move to the present in
Egyptian history, the Middle
Kingdom, which is your
period of Ramoses and Seti,
their priests became
master magicians and very--
>>REGINA: Very skillful.
>>LAHR: Very skillful
magicians, and it was not
necessarily for the light.
>>REGINA: --for
the good, exactly.
>>LAHR: And so Moses
was born, which
is about the birth of Moses.
You'll find magic being misused.
>>REGINA: Yes, and we're
going to talk about that
in our second hour together.
I want to talk about that.
So she was really
trying to uphold,
and it wasn't as though all of
the kingdoms surrounding hers
were as well developed.
>>LAHR: No, that's right.
>>REGINA: And she talks
about the various levels
of development--
culturally, socially,
in terms of the
systems of justice.
>>LAHR: Right,
Crete, for instance,
Crete, she considered
them children in Crete.
They were not-- I mean, the
Egyptian culture at that point,
it was focused on spiritual
teachings and truths.
And death, which
was the transition
into the beautiful
country, as Joan calls it
in this incarnation,
was very important
so that your soul was going to
be weighed by the 42 assessors,
and you were going to be asked--
>>REGINA: Talk about
that for a moment.
We've heard about the feather
of Maat, your heart being
weighed against the
feather of Maat,
but what were these tenets?
>>LAHR: There were
42 assessors when
you died that will ask you 42
questions, and the questions--
and I do believe they are the
source of the Ten Commandments
much later.
But it's a very
different thing to say,
I command you not to kill anyone
than to ask you a question,
have you ever taken
a life in violence?
Have you ever--
The first question,
which I think is so interesting,
have you treated your body as--
>>REGINA: --like a temple.
>>LAHR: A vessel, a
temple of the soul.
That was the first question.
>>REGINA: Wow, interesting--
have you respected yourself
first?
>>LAHR: I haven't exactly
gotten the words-- well,
it's about honoring your
body as a temple of the soul.
I mean that's a very
interesting thing.
You know today
you have teenagers
that are cutting themselves.
That is a completely-- they
don't-- the body is the temple
of their soul.
Do we have a culture that--
>>REGINA: But we've been
so cut off from that.
>>LAHR: So that was
the first question.
The first five questions
really have to do with that.
For a man it would
be, have you lain
with a woman who did not
speak to your spirit,
in other words--
>>REGINA: Oh, were
you a hypocrite?
>>LAHR: In other words, have
you-- the two at the end
are just extraordinary.
41 is have you
treated the animals as
though they were your brothers?
Because we were brothers
to animals before we
evolved into human beings.
We were rocks.
We were flowers.
And the last one,
have you treated
the plants and the
things that grow,
have you watered them if
they have been thirsty?
Now this has nothing
to do with being
in dominion over the animals.
This is about nurturing life.
So those 42 questions, which
I think are extraordinary,
the dying Egyptian had
to answer honestly.
And if they hadn't handled
all of those issues,
they were reborn.
If they had, they are--
>>REGINA: What a genuinely
beautiful form of evaluation.
And also, there is no judgment.
There's no supreme
anything lording
over the person that is
going through this evaluation
process.
It's you and yourself.
>>LAHR: Yes, they're answering,
well, I didn't really--
I was jealous.
Jealousy is one.
Gluttony is another.
All of them are dealt
with, but exactly, it's
you really evaluating yourself.
>>REGINA: It's so beautiful.
I'm thinking, gosh, my
house plants-- do I have one
that's really
suffering? [LAUGHS]
>>LAHR: [LAUGHS] Exactly,
but my daughter--
I have a wonderful daughter
who advocates for animals,
and she's vegan.
And I think, good for her.
Go, girl.
But indeed animals
are our brothers.
The plants, this whole
planet is sacred.
We really need--
>>REGINA: And that was
in the early kingdom.
It devolved after that.
Black magic started coming in.
>>LAHR: Decadence.
>>REGINA: The priests,
decadence, money, and you
know, as we start looking
at more revisionist history
and archaeology, very
interesting timelines are
starting to come
up, and that's why
I said I wouldn't have any
problem whichever book I read
that that was 7,800 years ago,
if that was the case, that
would still be relatively
modern history compared to some
of the timelines now,
where the pyramids
are thought to be at least
11,000, 12,000 years old.
John Anthony Westwood
say perhaps 35,000.
There are other
ancient teachings
that say, no, the Great
Pyramid is 85,000 years old.
And then I know the teaching
that I had for years and years,
it was told that the development
of Egyptian culture in the very
earliest days, which was far
earlier than we understand
today, was concurrent with
the Atlantian cultures.
>>LAHR: Yes, and, in fact,
in "Pharaoh," I think, yes, I
think that's right, and
there are references to that.
>>REGINA: Yes, and so you're
talking about ancient--
>>LAHR: She talks about the
Great Pyramid in "Pharaoh"
when she's talking
about her initiation.
It's like a mastaba shape.
Where she was
initiated was different
than the Great Pyramid,
she said, because it was--
>>REGINA: Different
purposes-- ziggurat
as a whole different
geometrical purpose
than the smooth-sided pyramid.
>>LAHR: But she said that
the Great Pyramid was
shining because
the limestone was
so polished that it reflected.
>>REGINA: Yes, well, I know the
"Winged Pharaoh," for anybody
who reads it, it stands out.
You can't say quite why it
stands out, other than it's not
just a beautiful tale.
It's because of the exquisite
pearls of wisdom intrigues us.
>>LAHR: Exactly, it's
not "truthiness."
It's truth.
>>REGINA: It's truth,
and I know my son--
>>LAHR: We've had a
lot of truthiness.
>>REGINA: I turned him
on to it in his late 20s,
and that still remains
one of his primary guides
today when he thinks of justice.
He's always taken back
to the life of Sekeeta,
once she grew up into
the role of pharaoh
and the way people
were weighed and viewed
in this really true
authentic system
of wholeness and justice.
It's so beautiful.
Meanwhile we have other
things to chat about
because she wrote seven books.
And then there was
one subject she really
didn't choose to go into a lot,
so we're going to come back,
and then we'll do part
two of that conversation.
It's been fun so far.
I just love Joan Grant,
and I love that you're here
talking about her.
In our next conversation,
we'll discuss her life
as a Native American
and also the life
and times of Mary and Jesus.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.